All right.
Welcome back.
So we have our database set up.
Now we're going to start working on our routes.
And remember we have five different routes we want for this restful Jaison API to use API and we're
going to start off with this first one that just lists all the current tissues in the database.
And so the route the path itself is slash API slash to use and it's a GET request.
But before we do that.
Notice that all of these routes start with Slash API slash to.
Now we don't have to do that.
You know when we're creating an API it's up to us to structure it however we want we could call this
slash list to use and this one the slash created to do and so on we could name them whatever we want
but this is a nice standardized format and the slash API at the beginning is also not necessary but
I like to do it especially because when we actually build our application we're going to have some pages
that are not part of the API.
So for example we're going to build the To Do list in our same node.
So our note app is going to have a home page that it serves and that home page is going to request our
own Noda.
But it's going to request slash API slash to use.
So we don't necessarily want to take up the main namespace.
You might as well relegate or segregate things to the slash API portion of our application.
OK so let's get started.
And we're going to hop over to our cloud nine and the first thing I'm going to do is instead of defining
all five routes here because each route is going to be potentially five to 10 lines maybe more.
And that's going to clutter up our main file here.
And that's just for us.
So if we had users and comments and whatever else that would be another five or plus routes for each
one this would be a very long file.
So the convention is to make our route's directory.
So we're going to do that now.
New Folder and I'll call it routes.
And then inside of it I'm going to make a to do Scott.
Yes.
So this will be all of our to do routes.
So to get things working I'm just going to start off by requiring Express because we're going to need
Express and we're going to need the Express router.
So Express equals require Express then we're also going to add in var router equals express dot router.
You're not familiar with the express router.
This just allows us to break our routes out into little modular chunks and what we'll actually do is
require them back in our index J.S. up this index j as our main app file and require them here.
So Varada equals express that router and then let's establish our first little wrap.
So our first route is going to be router datt get and I'm actually just going to write slash here which
we already have a slash or a route route but I'm going to do something slightly different so I'm going
to do rest and hello from Duge raps.
So I'm going to send that and you might think there's a conflict but actually right now nothing is happening
with these routes in our main app File.
We're not requiring it.
We're not including those routes.
So we do need to do that.
So I'm going to do that now when to add var to do routes equals require and then the path to that directory
is going to be dot slash route slash to use.
So to do route this variable it's going to contain the exports of our to do such a file but we need
to actually export our router.
That's what we want.
So we're going to do a module that exports equals router.
OK so now we have access to our routes.
We've required them but we're still not actually doing anything with them.
And this is the Khelein so I'm going to delete are happier out to clean things up a bit.
And I'm going to change this just to be a resident and hello from the root.
Oh boy.
Route route.
Just like that.
And then we're going to actually use all the routes in this file which right now is just one.
But we're going to have five routes in this file.
Each one is going to interact with the database in its own way.
And so we're going to tell her to use them.
But the way we do that is slightly different We're going to do an app use and there's two things we
pass in.
The first is a prefix for all the routes.
So ours are all going to start with API slash to do.
Remember API slashed to deuce and all five of these start with that.
And so if we tell express that we want them to start with this all we have to do is define what comes
afterwards if anything.
So in this case a get request to slash if it's inside or to do is routes is actually going to be a get
request to slash API slash to use slash nothing.
So the second thing we need to pass and is hard to do routes.
And no this is kind of convoluted but hopefully it makes sense.
What we're doing.
Going to define five routes here.
And when we refer to router don't get slash in our main app it's actually going to be router don't get
slash API slash to do slash nothing as a get request.
So if we want to define this get route where we go to slash API slash to do slash to do Id all we actually
have to do is router don't get slashed to do Id because API slash to use is done for us.
So with all that said let's test it out.
We have two routes.
Now we have our Shlash coming from our index j us that says Hello from the root route and then we have
our slash which is coming from the to do's routes which is technically under sash API slash to Dewes
is as a prefix.
So let's see what happens.
Start our server up here to make sure we're in the correct directory.
So it to CD into my to use API.
OK.
Now I will start node index.
Yes.
And it says it's running.
So let's preview it.
If we go to our route route we get hello from the route route and if we go to slash API slash to Duse
we get hello from to do is routes perfect.
So now in our Yes we'll be able to define our five routes without having to rewrite slash API slash
to do it over and over.
So the very last thing we'll do is instead of sending Hello from Tutu's routes let's send all of you
to use in the database.
So for that to work we actually need to require our model which is in this directory models.
So we're going to make a variable called D-B call it database you could call it whatever you want.
Var D-B equals require.
And to get to this directory the models directory from where we are because we're inside of that see
to do us right here are getting into backout level and then go into the models directory so we're going
to do dot dot slash models and we just want the models directory because it will automatically require
the index file which has all this code in it and we're adding in the to do model.
So we'll be able to access D-B to do so and show you that here all of our code that mongoose gives us
for our model will be under DVD to do.
So what we want is D-B to do dot find.
And that's going to find all to do.
So this is the code we want when we hit this route list all the to do.
We find them like this.
And rather than doing it for familiar with Mongoose you can do a callback function like this.
But now we can also do promises.
So we're going to add a dot then
to use data that comes back and we're just going to do a rez that Jaison to use just like that and we
can add a catch as well.
If there's an error and we'll just do a red dot send error.
OK.
So there's a lot going on because of how we've broken up this application.
It's pretty standard for Express but it can be very complicated if you're new to it but just focus on
the fact that we have our code for our to do model in this D-B variable.
Under de-bunked to do and there's a method find that Mongoose is going to go connect to our database
find all Tutu's and then afterwards we're just going to send the Jason back red Jaison to do.
And if there's a problem we're going to send the error message so we don't have any to use in our database.
Small problem.
But let's just see what happens.
So if we go to Sasha API slushed do we get an empty array.
And that's because there's nothing in our database so we're going to trust that it's working but we'll
actually have proof of that in the next video when we get our post route to create a new to do.